## If AI Is Already Writing Code, Will Programmers Lose Their Jobs?
[Link to the Article](https://kateabrosimova.medium.com/if-ai-is-already-writing-code-will-programmers-lose-their-jobs-f942c15caebb)
---
With the AI being the single most spotlighted field of computer science in the recent years, there have been both excited and concerned voices regarding AI and the changes that it will bring to our world. Many of the concerns have to do with workers across many different fields being at the risk of getting replaced by AI in the near future. Software developers, quite ironically, were no exceptions to this concern, as some tech companies revealed a few years ago that they are working on an AI that is capable of writing reliable code. Being a computer science major hoping to work as a software engineer in the near future, I once was very worried about this news, especially because I heard about this shortly after I watched DeepMind's AlphaGo beat the best human Go player in the world, which was quite the shock in East Asia, from where I come from. People, including myself, were starting to truly witness and understand the potential of AI and what it could do for/to our world. Because of this particular timing of the news, I of course was very worried that the profession I was hoping to pursue would shortly be rendered unnecessary and obsolete. This article, along with many others, had helped me understand the true significance of AI in the field of software development and had resolved many of my concerns and doubts. I hope that this article would have the similar effects on the others who have concerns similar to those I once had.


### Comment by Santiago Darré
As software engineers, many of us naively believed that our jobs would be immune to automation. As AI advances however, it's becoming clear that this isn't the case. We despair because we can't imagine a world without work. To many of us, the only alternative is starvation. Fortunately, automation has the potential to create a world where compulsory work is a thing of the past. We should be setting up the necessary institutions *right now* that will allow us to transition into a post-work world. The automation of virtually every job (even artistic jobs) is inevitable and it is our choice whether that destroys us or propels us into utopian luxury.

=======
### Comments by Jessica Liu
Hi! I found your points on AI pretty cool and wonder if you're also taking Professor Yann Lecun's AI course? The topic this week touches on Robotics and I think it might solve some of your concerns about being replaced by code-writing AIs.
